Document passkeys package (#394)
safe-global/safe-modules: modules/passkey/README.md

This package contains a passkey signature verifier, that can be used as an owner for a Safe, compatible with versions 1.3.0+.

## Contracts overview

> Safe account being standard agnostic, new user flows such as custom signature verification logic can be added/removed as and when required. By leveraging this flexibility to support customizing Safe account, Passkeys-based execution flow can be enabled on a Safe. The contracts in this package use [ERC-1271](https://github.com/frangio/eip712-wrapper-for-eip1271) standard and WebAuthn standard to allow signature verification on SECP256K1 curve. The contracts in this package are designed in such a way that they can be used with precompiles for signature verification in the supported networks or use any verifier contract as a fallback mechanism. In their current state, the contracts are tested with [Fresh Crypto Lib (FCL)](https://github.com/rdubois-crypto/FreshCryptoLib).

Reviewer: Please link the EIP directly instead of a 3rd party repository

Author: ooh.. I copied link from another tab. Fixed it here https://github.com/safe-global/safe-modules/pull/394/commits/093a298e87950c363b0664f95d0aea434446760b

The below sections give a high-level overview of the contracts present in this package.

### [SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy](./contracts/SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy.sol)

A proxy contract is uniquely deployed for each Passkey signer. The signer information i.e, Public key co-ordinates, Verifier address, Singleton address are immutable. All calls to the signer are forwarded to the `SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` contract.

> Use of `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` provides gas savings compared to the whole contract deployment for each signer creation. The `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` contract is a proxy contract that forwards calls to the `SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` contract which is a singleton contract. Both `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` and `SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` use no storage slots to avoid storage access violations defined in ERC-4337. The details on gas savings can be found in [this PR](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-modules/pull/370). This proxy contract appends public key co-ordinates, and verifier information to the calldata before forwarding call to the singleton contract.

Reviewer: I would add a mention that the proxy is non-standard and works by appending signer parameters to calldata

Author: Already mentions here that additional information is appended to calldata.

> This proxy contract appends public key co-ordinates, and verifier information to the calldata before forwarding call to the singleton contract.

added keyword "non-standard" here: https://github.com/safe-global/safe-modules/pull/394/commits/203c54c956e0ab60cbb93748cc1fc5e34e5ff9c9

### [SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton](./contracts/SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton.sol)

`SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` implements ERC-1271 interface to support signature verification which enables signature data to be forwarded from a Safe to the `WebAuthn` library. The `SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` contract is a singleton contract that forwards calls to the `WebAuthn` library. This contract expects public key co-ordinates, and verifier address to be appended by the caller inspired from [ERC-2771](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2771).

### [SafeWebAuthnSignerFactory](./contracts/SafeWebAuthnSignerFactory.sol)

The `SafeWebAuthnSignerFactory` contract is used to deploy the `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` contract with the public key co-ordinates and verifier information. The factory contract also supports signature verification for the public-key and signature information without deploying the signer contract which is used during the validation of `UserOp`. Using [ISafeSignerFactory](./contracts/interfaces/ISafeSignerFactory.sol) interface and this factory contract address, new signers can be deployed .

> ### [WebAuthn](./contracts/WebAuthn.sol)

Reviewer: The signature scheme documentation is notably missing

Author: https://github.com/safe-global/safe-modules/pull/394/commits/25815c35006a1db8fc546c3d9fd282c1b9a96567

> This library is used for generating signing message, hashing it and forwarding the call to the verifier contract.

Reviewer: Can we add documentation about the precompile + fallback scheme we use?

Author: https://github.com/safe-global/safe-modules/pull/394/commits/2cc69dcc14914858d8286c08e38ab57d48373244

This package contains a passkey signature verifier, that can be used as an owner for a Safe, compatible with versions 1.3.0+.

## Contracts overview

> Safe account being standard agnostic, new user flows such as custom signature verification logic can be added/removed as and when required. By leveraging this flexibility to support customizing Safe account, Passkeys-based execution flow can be enabled on a Safe. The contracts in this package use [ERC-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) standard and WebAuthn standard to allow signature verification on the SECP256R1 curve. The contracts in this package are designed to be used with precompiles for signature verification in the supported networks or use any verifier contract as a fallback mechanism. In their current state, the contracts are tested with [Fresh Crypto Lib (FCL)](https://github.com/rdubois-crypto/FreshCryptoLib).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Safe account being standard agnostic, new user flows such as custom signature verification logic can be added/removed as and when required. By leveraging this flexibility to support customizing Safe account, Passkeys-based execution flow can be enabled on a Safe. The contracts in this package use [ERC-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) standard and [WebAuthn](https://w3c.github.io/webauthn/) standard to allow signature verification on the SECP256R1 curve. The contracts in this package are designed to be used with precompiles for signature verification in the supported networks or use any verifier contract as a fallback mechanism. In their current state, the contracts are tested with [Fresh Crypto Lib (FCL)](https://github.com/rdubois-crypto/FreshCryptoLib).
```

> Safe account being standard agnostic, new user flows such as custom signature verification logic can be added/removed as and when required. By leveraging this flexibility to support customizing Safe account, Passkeys-based execution flow can be enabled on a Safe. The contracts in this package use [ERC-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) standard and WebAuthn standard to allow signature verification on SECP256K1 curve. The contracts in this package are designed in such a way that they can be used with precompiles for signature verification in the supported networks or use any verifier contract as a fallback mechanism. In their current state, the contracts are tested with [Fresh Crypto Lib (FCL)](https://github.com/rdubois-crypto/FreshCryptoLib).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Safe account being standard agnostic, new user flows such as custom signature verification logic can be added/removed as and when required. By leveraging this flexibility to support customizing Safe account, Passkeys-based execution flow can be enabled on a Safe. The contracts in this package use [ERC-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) standard and WebAuthn standard to allow signature verification on the SECP256R1 curve. The contracts in this package are designed to be used with precompiles for signature verification in the supported networks or use any verifier contract as a fallback mechanism. In their current state, the contracts are tested with [Fresh Crypto Lib (FCL)](https://github.com/rdubois-crypto/FreshCryptoLib).
```

Fix the curve name + simplify text

> Safe account being standard agnostic, new user flows such as custom signature verification logic can be added/removed as and when required. By leveraging this flexibility to support customizing Safe account, Passkeys-based execution flow can be enabled on a Safe. The contracts in this package use [ERC-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) standard and [WebAuthn](https://w3c.github.io/webauthn/) standard to allow signature verification on the SECP256R1 curve. The contracts in this package are designed to be used with precompiles for signature verification in the supported networks or use any verifier contract as a fallback mechanism. In their current state, the contracts are tested with [Fresh Crypto Lib (FCL)](https://github.com/rdubois-crypto/FreshCryptoLib).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Safe account being standard agnostic, new user flows such as custom signature verification logic can be added/removed as and when required. By leveraging this flexibility to support customizing Safe account, Passkeys-based execution flow can be enabled on a Safe. The contracts in this package use [ERC-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) standard and [WebAuthn](https://w3c.github.io/webauthn/) standard to allow signature verification for WebAuthn credentials using the secp256r1 curve. The contracts in this package are designed to be used with precompiles for signature verification in the supported networks or use any verifier contract as a fallback mechanism. In their current state, the contracts are tested with [Fresh Crypto Lib (FCL)](https://github.com/rdubois-crypto/FreshCryptoLib) and [daimo-eth](https://github.com/daimo-eth/p256-verifier).
```

The below sections give a high-level overview of the contracts present in this package.

### [SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy](./contracts/SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy.sol)

A proxy contract is uniquely deployed for each Passkey signer. The signer information i.e, Public key co-ordinates, Verifier address, Singleton address are immutable. All calls to the signer are forwarded to the `SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` contract.

> Use of `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` provides gas savings compared to the whole contract deployment for each signer creation. Both `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` and `SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` use no storage slots to avoid storage access violations defined in ERC-4337. The details on gas savings can be found in [this PR](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-modules/pull/370). This non-standard proxy contract appends signer information i.e., public key co-ordinates, and verifier data to the calldata before forwarding call to the singleton contract.

Reviewer: Can we link to the PR? I think it provides gas analysis.

> Use of `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` provides gas savings compared to the whole contract deployment for each signer creation. The `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` contract is a proxy contract that forwards calls to the `SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` contract which is a singleton contract. Both `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` and `SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` use no storage slots to avoid storage access violations defined in ERC-4337. The details on gas savings can be found in [this PR](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-modules/pull/370). This non-standard proxy contract appends signer information i.e., public key co-ordinates, and verifier data to the calldata before forwarding call to the singleton contract.

Reviewer 2: This feels like a repeated information:

> All calls to the signer are forwarded to the `SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` contract.

as we also have:

> The `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` contract is a proxy contract that forwards calls to the `SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` contract which is a singleton contract.

Author: https://github.com/safe-global/safe-modules/pull/394/commits/36aa63347c2984ab1b53d9a4f5f59820ef14b2c0

### [SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton](./contracts/SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton.sol)

> `SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` implements ERC-1271 interface to support signature verification which enables signature data to be forwarded from a Safe to the `WebAuthn` library. The `SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` contract is a singleton contract that forwards calls to the `WebAuthn` library. This contract expects public key co-ordinates, and verifier address to be appended by the caller inspired from [ERC-2771](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2771).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`SafeWebAuthnSignerSingleton` contract is a singleton contract that implements the ERC-1271 interface to support signature verification, enabling signature data to be forwarded from a Safe to the `WebAuthn` library. This contract expects public key co-ordinates, and verifier address to be appended by the caller inspired from [ERC-2771](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2771).
```

### [SafeWebAuthnSignerFactory](./contracts/SafeWebAuthnSignerFactory.sol)

> The `SafeWebAuthnSignerFactory` contract deploys the `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` contract with the public key coordinates and verifier information. The factory contract also supports signature verification for the public key and signature information without deploying the signer contract, which is used during the validation of `UserOp`. Using [ISafeSignerFactory](./contracts/interfaces/ISafeSignerFactory.sol) interface and this factory contract address, new signers can be deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SafeWebAuthnSignerFactory` contract deploys the `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` contract with the public key coordinates and verifier information. The factory contract also supports signature verification for the public key and signature information without deploying the signer contract, which is used during the validation of ERC-4337 user operations by the experimental `SafeSignerLaunchpad` contract. Using [ISafeSignerFactory](./contracts/interfaces/ISafeSignerFactory.sol) interface and this factory contract address, new signers can be deployed.
```

I would qualify this a bit more - it isn't used generally for user op validation, only by the launchpad for the first user operation.

> The `SafeWebAuthnSignerFactory` contract is used to deploy the `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` contract with the public key co-ordinates and verifier information. The factory contract also supports signature verification for the public-key and signature information without deploying the signer contract which is used during the validation of `UserOp`. Using [ISafeSignerFactory](./contracts/interfaces/ISafeSignerFactory.sol) interface and this factory contract address, new signers can be deployed .

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `SafeWebAuthnSignerFactory` contract deploys the `SafeWebAuthnSignerProxy` contract with the public key coordinates and verifier information. The factory contract also supports signature verification for the public key and signature information without deploying the signer contract, which is used during the validation of `UserOp`. Using [ISafeSignerFactory](./contracts/interfaces/ISafeSignerFactory.sol) interface and this factory contract address, new signers can be deployed.
```

### [WebAuthn](./contracts/libraries/WebAuthn.sol)

This library is used for generating signing message, hashing it and forwarding the call to the verifier contract. The `WebAuthn` library defines `Signature` struct containing `authenticatorData`, `clientDataFields`, followed by ECDSA signature's `r` and `s` components. The `authenticatorData` and `clientDataFields` required for generating the signing message. The `bytes` signature received in `verifySignature(...)` function is cast to `Signature` struct so, the caller has to take into account formatting the signature bytes as expected by the `WebAuthn` library.

> 

Reviewer: Can we document the expected format here? This is just an overview of the format, but I think we should be more precise and even specify a code snippet for example.

Author: https://github.com/safe-global/safe-modules/pull/394/commits/b0f5e39dd15a91973e0e0ade19fb6648e91b2db7

### [P256](./contracts/libraries/P256.sol)

> `P256` is a library for P256 signature verification with contracts that follows the EIP-7212 EC verify precompile interface. This library defines a custom type `Verifiers`, which encodes two addresses into a single `uint192`. The first address (4 bytes) is a precompile address dedicated to verification, and the second (20 bytes) is a fallback address. This setup allows the library to support networks where the precompile not yet available, seamlessly transitioning to the precompile when it becomes active, while relying on a fallback contract address in the meantime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`P256` is a library for P256 signature verification with contracts that follows the EIP-7212 EC verify precompile interface. This library defines a custom type `Verifiers`, which encodes two addresses into a single `uint192`. The first address (4 bytes) is a precompile address dedicated to verification, and the second (20 bytes) is a fallback address. This setup allows the library to support networks where the precompile is not yet available, seamlessly transitioning to the precompile when it becomes active, while relying on a fallback contract address in the meantime.
```

npx hardhat --network <network> local-verify
```

> ### Compiler settings

Author: I think should we also mention here why optimiser is enabled as follows:

After careful consideration, we decided to enable the optimizer for the following reasons:

- The most critical functionality, such as signature checks is handled by the verifier contract.
- The entrypoint contract uses the optimizer.

Reviewer 3: > The most critical functionality, such as signature checks is handled by the verifier contract.

Does the verifier use an optimiser? Do we control this setting? If yes, then the argument doesn't hold.

> The entrypoint contract uses the optimizer.

I don't think the entrypoint contract is relevant for this because it's possible to use some of the passkey contracts without 4337

In general, I do think we should elaborate on our compiler settings 👍

Author: > Does the verifier use an optimiser?
Its an external contract. So, not defined if optimiser is enabled.
> Do we control this setting?
Nope

> I don't think the entrypoint contract is relevant for this because it's possible to use some of the passkey contracts without 4337
Will remove it

Author: As verifier contract can be any contract and is not fixed, also as `entrypoint` is optional here, the statements do not justify purpose of optimiser.
